docs: adjust documentation for current implementation (#131)
kyma-project/module-manager: README.md

# module-manager

The [module-manager](#module-manager) plays an important part in the modularization ecosystem to handle installation of resources from control-plane to runtime clusters. 
For more information, refer to the [architecture summary](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#architecture).

> This repository offers an **_operator_** and relevant **_library packages_** to perform reconciliation of helm chart resources, configurations and custom resource state handling.

Author: I think the Manifest aspect doesn't belong to the library, so needs to be kept seperate

The **_library package_** could be used independently of the operator.

> ### Content

Reviewer: If we have a content lineout, we should also do the same on Lifecycle Manager

Author: https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/pull/250

* [Operator](#operator)
* [Manifest library](#manifest-library) 
* [Local setup](#local-setup)
* [Cluster setup](#cluster-setup)
* [Contribution](#contribution)
* [Versioning and releasing](#versioning-and-releasing)
* [Next steps](#next-steps)

> **Disclaimer**: This repository is still in development and implementation details could change rapidly.

Reviewer: I think we should add a stability section similar to https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#stability

metadata:
  labels:
    operator.kyma-project.io/channel: stable
    operator.kyma-project.io/controller-name: manifest
    operator.kyma-project.io/kyma-name: kyma-sample
  name: manifestkyma-sample-delete
  namespace: default
spec:
  remote: true
  resource:
    kind: SampleCRD
    resource: samplecrds
    apiVersion: operator.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
    metadata:
      name: sample-crd-from-manifest
      namespace: default
    spec:
      randomkey: samplevalue
  crds:
    ref: sha256:71cf4f1fee1a2f51296cc805aa9b24bc14fd5c2b4aee1e24aadc2996b067bb3d
    name: kyma-project.io/module/example-module-name
    repo: kcp-registry.localhost:8888/component-descriptors
    type: oci-ref
  config:
    ref: sha256:61be4f1fee1a2f51296cc805aa9b24bc14fd5c2b4aee1e24aadc2996b067ccec
    name: kyma-project.io/module/example-module-name
    repo: kcp-registry.localhost:8888/component-descriptors
    type: oci-ref
  installs:
    - source:
        name: kyma-project.io/module/example-module-name
        repo: kcp-registry.localhost:8888/component-descriptors
        ref: sha256:c64f0580a74259712f24243528881a76b5e1c9cd254fa58197de93a6347f99b9
        type: oci-ref
      name: redis
```

> If `.Spec.Remote.` is set to `true`, the operator will look for a secret with the name specified by Manifest CR's label `operator.kyma-project.io/kyma-name: kyma-sample`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `.Spec.Remote.` is set to `true`, the operator will look for a secret with the name specified by Manifest CR's label `operator.kyma-project.io/kyma-name: kyma-sample` (if used in conjunction with the default strategy for resolving cluster connectivity). 
```

Author: Didn't understand default strategy here, since we have not listed them so far AFAIK?

Author: `This secret is used to connect to an existing cluster (target) for manifest resource installations. ` ?

> Follow steps in this [guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/developer/creating-test-environment.md#install-kyma-and-run-lifecycle-manager-operator) to create the required secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps in [this guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/developer/creating-test-environment.md#install-kyma-and-run-lifecycle-manager-operator) to create the required secret based on an existing cluster.
```

Author: This secret is used to connect to an existing cluster (target) for manifest resource installations.

For more details on OCI Image **bundling** and **formats**, refer to our [bundling and installation guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/tree/main/samples/template-operator#bundling-and-installation).

> The component-descriptor generated from this guide could be used for `Manifest Spec` OCI image specifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component-descriptor generated from this guide could be used to independantly build a `Manifest Spec` based on the OCI image specifications. 

>Note: In the Kyma Control-Plane, [Lifecycle-Manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#how-it-works) translates these Layers automatically and provisions the CRs based on it's `ModuleTemplate` resource.
```

Author: `>Note: [Lifecycle-Manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#how-it-works) translates these layers from a `ModuleTemplate` resource on the Kyma control-plane and translates them automatically to a subsequent `Manifest` resource.` ?

>Note: Alternatively you could use your own bundled OCI images. Please take care to conform to [.Spec.Config](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/samples/template-operator/config.yaml) format, 
> which corresponds to helm configuration and set value flags for an installation in `.Spec.Installs[].Name`.

### Manifest library
The operator uses the [manifest library](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/operator/pkg/manifest) to process deployments on clusters.

It supports helm chart installations from two sources: **_helm repositories_** and **_local paths_**. Additionally, it helps to process additional local installations of CRs, CRDs and custom checks.
The library could be used to simply process deployments on target clusters or use withing your own operator to carry deployment operations. 

> E.g. [template-operator](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/tree/main/samples/template-operator) used this library (via the [declarative](operator/pkg/declarative) library) to perform necessary operations on target clusters during reconciliations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
E.g. [template-operator](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/tree/main/samples/template-operator) uses this library (via the [declarative](operator/pkg/declarative) library) to perform necessary operations on target clusters during reconciliations.
```

> Import package `github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/operator/pkg/manifest` to include the main functionality required to process helm charts coupled with additional state handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started, simply import `github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/operator/pkg/manifest` to include the functionality from the library required to process helm charts coupled with additional state handling.
```

            // check: https://github.com/helm/helm/blob/d7b4c38c42cb0b77f1bcebf9bb4ae7695a10da0b/pkg/action/install.go#L67
            ConfigFlags: types.Flags{ 
                "Namespace":       chartNs,
                "CreateNamespace": true,
            },
            // SetFlags are chart value overrides
            SetFlags: types.Flags{
                ".some.value.override": "override",
            },      
        },
    },
    ClusterInfo: custom.ClusterInfo{
        Config: restConfig, // destination cluster rest config
        Client: client, // destination cluster rest client
    },
    ResourceInfo: manifest.ResourceInfo{
        CustomResources: []*unstructured.Unstructured{} // additional custom resources to be installed
        BaseResource: unstructured.Unstructured{}, // base resource to be passed for custom checks, usually the reconciled resource
		Crds: []*apiextensions.CustomResourceDefinition // additional custom resource definitions to be installed
    },
    CheckReadyStates: true,
}

ready, err := manifest.InstallChart(logger, deployInfo, []types.ObjectTransform{})
if err != nil {
	return false, err
}

> ready, err := manifest.UninstallChart(logger, deployInfo, []types.ObjectTransform{})

Reviewer: why is this uninstall immediately running after install?
I think this sample should be working ootb, not sure if it is doing that right now

Author: Good point, I have moved `ConsistencyCheck` before `Uninstall`. The idea is to specify all 3 options. I have added additional comments now.

Reviewer: Hmm, Im still a bit uncertain about the choice of representation there. Why don't we implement a full reconciliation here that handles all 3 like we do in template operator? Is it too big?

Author: IMO that is unecessary since `deployInfo` will remain the same. Having `deployInfo` 3 times will be an overkill.

Reviewer: I think its rather about the reconciliation being complete in the example, otherwise it wont be able to deal with uninstallation/upgrades

|--------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| build        | Run fmt, vet and DeepCopy method implementations |
| manifests    | Create CRDs based on [API types](operator/api)   |
| install      | Install CRDs                                     |
| run          | Run operator controller locally                  |

### Cluster setup

- Refer to the remote cluster and registry setup [documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/developer/provision-cluster-and-registry.md#remote-cluster-setup) to create cluster(s) either in a single-cluster or dual-cluster mode.
- Set your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to point towards the desired cluster.
- Run the following commands with `IMG` environment variable pointing to the image name

| Make command | Description                                           |
|--------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| docker-build | Build operator image                                  |
| docker-push  | Push docker image to your repo                        |
| deploy       | Deploys the operator resources to the desired cluster |

> ### Contribution

Reviewer: We have a Kyma Contribution Guideline that we should reference here I think: https://kyma-project.io/community/contributing/02-contributing/

Please open issues and pull requests to address both bugs and feature requests to this repository. Any additional feedback could also be addressed directly to the contributors.

### Versioning and Releasing
Refer to a summary on versioning [here](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#versioning-and-releasing).

> ### Next Steps

Reviewer: These steps should probably be tracked in issues instead of the main readme

Author: The idea was to highlight some important upcoming features. I mentioned Kustomize support in the Manifest library section, linked to the issue.

It supports helm chart installations from two sources: **_helm repositories_** and **_local paths_**. Additionally, it helps to process additional local installations of CRs, CRDs and custom state checks.

>Note: We plan to offer [Kustomize installation support](https://github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/issues/124), along with the existing helm installation soon. 

The library could be used to simply process deployments on target clusters or use within your own operator to carry deployment operations. 
E.g. [template-operator](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/tree/main/samples/template-operator) uses this library (via the [declarative](operator/pkg/declarative) library) to perform necessary operations on target clusters during reconciliations.
To get started, simply import package `github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/operator/pkg/manifest` to include the main functionality provided by the library to process helm charts, coupled with additional state handling.
For more options and information refer to the [InstallInfo](operator/pkg/manifest/operations.go) type definition.

### Sample usage

> ```go

Reviewer 2: Since the sample it pretty long, maybe put it inside a collapsable block - like here: https://gist.github.com/pierrejoubert73/902cc94d79424356a8d20be2b382e1ab

Author: added this both for sample Manifest resource and sample library usage

# Module Manager

The [module-manager](#module-manager) plays an important part in the modularization ecosystem to handle installation of resources from control-plane to runtime clusters.
It is used as a meta-controller for managing the entire installation lifecycle of individual modules from installation, upgrades to clean up.
For more information, refer to the [architecture summary](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#architecture).
This repository offers an **_operator_** (reconciles [Manifest](https://github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/blob/main/operator/api/v1alpha1/manifest_types.go))  and relevant **_library packages_** to perform reconciliation of resources, configurations and custom resource state handling.

> The **_library package_** can be used independently of the **_operator_** and is consumed as a helper library by other modules in the Kyma ecosystem.

Author: added it as a sub bullet point

In general, the reconciliation and resource processing framework is considered stable and ready to be used.

As part of this repository the following components are offered:

| System Component                                          | Stability                                                                                         |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Manifest](operator/api/v1alpha1/manifest_types.go)       | Alpha-Grade - do not rely on automation and watch upstream as close as possible                   |
| [Controller](operator/controllers/manifest_controller.go) | In active development - expect bugs and fast paced development                                    |
| [Library](operator/pkg)                                   | In active development - expect bugs and fast paced development. Detailed documentation to follow. |

## Operator specification

The module-manager reconciles the `Manifest` custom resource.

> As observed in the [Sample Manifest CR](operator/config/samples/operator_v1alpha1_manifest.yaml) and [API definition](operator/api/v1alpha1/manifest_types.go), 

Author: The `Spec` contains the necessary properties to process installations as seen in the example [Sample Manifest CR](operator/config/samples/operator_v1alpha1_manifest.yaml) and [API definition](operator/api/v1alpha1/manifest_types.go) below.
?

the `Spec` contains the necessary properties to process installations.

> ### Manifest Custom Resource

Reviewer 3: We use [sentence case](https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-style-and-terminology/#sentence-case) in headlines. 

```suggestion
### Manifest custom resource
```

| Spec field | Description                                                                                                   |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Remote     | `false` for single cluster mode, `true`(default) for dual cluster mode                                        |

> | Resource   | Additional unstructured custom resource to be installed, e.g. for implicit reconciliation via Installs        |

Author: I will remove the example part here, since it is a mainstream usage

| Installs   | OCI image specification for a list of helm charts                                                             |
| Config     | Optional: OCI image specification for helm configuration and set flags                                        |

> | CRDs       | Optional: OCI image specification for additional CRDs that are pre-installed before helm charts are processed |

Author: This was intended

> | CRDs       | Optional: OCI image specification for additional CRDs that are pre-installed before helm charts are processed |

Reviewer 3: Which one? The hyphen in pre-installed (ok!), or the wrong capitalization for Helm?

If `.Spec.Remote.` is set to `true`, the operator will look for a secret with the name specified by Manifest CR's label `operator.kyma-project.io/kyma-name: kyma-sample`.
Follow the steps in [this guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/developer/creating-test-environment.md#install-kyma-and-run-lifecycle-manager-operator) to create the required secret.

> This secret is used to connect to an existing cluster (target) for `Manifest` resource installations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Learn how to create the required secret in [Install Kyma and run lifecycle-manager operator](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/developer/creating-test-environment.md#install-kyma-and-run-lifecycle-manager-operator).
```

> For more details on OCI Image **bundling** and **formats**, refer to our [bundling and installation guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/tree/main/samples/template-operator#bundling-and-installation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more details on OCI Image **bundling** and **formats**, read our [bundling and installation guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/tree/main/samples/template-operator#bundling-and-installation).
```

> The component-descriptor generated from this guide could be used to independently build a `Manifest Spec` based on the OCI image specifications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the component descriptor generated from this guide to independently build a `Manifest Spec` based on the OCI image specifications.
```

> >Note: [Lifecycle-Manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#how-it-works) translates these layers from a `ModuleTemplate` resource on the Kyma control-plane and translates them automatically to a subsequent `Manifest` resource.

Reviewer 3: "translates ... and translates"? Trying to shorten it.

```suggestion
> **NOTE:** [Lifecycle-Manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#how-it-works) translates these layers from a `ModuleTemplate` resource on the Kyma Control Plane (KCP) automatically to a subsequent `Manifest` resource.
```

>Alternatively you could use your own bundled OCI images. Please take care to conform to [.Spec.Config](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/samples/template-operator/config.yaml) format,
> which corresponds to helm configuration and set value flags for an installation in `.Spec.Installs[].Name`.

> ### Sample Resource

Reviewer 3: We use [sentence case](https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-style-and-terminology/#sentence-case) in headlines. 

```suggestion
### Sample resource
```

  config:
    ref: sha256:61be4f1fee1a2f51296cc805aa9b24bc14fd5c2b4aee1e24aadc2996b067ccec
    name: kyma-project.io/module/example-module-name
    repo: kcp-registry.localhost:8888/component-descriptors
    type: oci-ref
  installs:
    - source:
        name: kyma-project.io/module/example-module-name
        repo: kcp-registry.localhost:8888/component-descriptors
        ref: sha256:c64f0580a74259712f24243528881a76b5e1c9cd254fa58197de93a6347f99b9
        type: oci-ref
      name: redis
    - source:
        chartName: mysql
        url: https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
        type: helm-chart
      name: bitnami
```
</details>

## Manifest library

The operator uses the [manifest library](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/operator/pkg/manifest) to process deployments on clusters.

It supports helm chart installations from two sources: **_helm repositories_** and **_local paths_**. Additionally, it helps to process additional local installations of CRs, CRDs and custom state checks.

>Note: We plan to offer [Kustomize installation support](https://github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/issues/124), along with the existing helm installation soon. 

> The library could be used to simply process deployments on target clusters or use within your own operator to carry deployment operations. 

Author: Good guess, but that's only one of the operators that could use the manifest library.

> E.g. [template-operator](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/tree/main/samples/template-operator) uses this library (via the [declarative](operator/pkg/declarative) library) to perform necessary operations on target clusters during reconciliations.

Author: through the [declarative](operator/pkg/declarative?

    },
    CheckFn: func (context.Context, *unstructured.Unstructured, *logr.Logger, ClusterInfo) (bool, error) { // optional: custom logic for resource state checks
		return true, nil
	},
    CheckReadyStates: true,
}

// Based on deployInfo above following operations could be performed 

// Option 1: Install resources
ready, err := manifest.InstallChart(logger, deployInfo, []types.ObjectTransform{})
if err != nil {
	return false, err
}

// Option 2: Verify resources exist
ready, err := manifest.ConsistencyCheck(logger, deployInfo, []types.ObjectTransform{})
if err != nil {
    return false, err
}

// Option 3: Uninstall resources
ready, err := manifest.UninstallChart(logger, deployInfo, []types.ObjectTransform{})
if err != nil {
return false, err
}
```

</details>

## Run the operator 

### Local setup

- Refer to the local cluster and registry setup [documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/developer/provision-cluster-and-registry.md#local-cluster-setup) to create cluster(s) either in a single-cluster or dual-cluster mode.
- Set your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to point towards the desired cluster.

> - Run the following `make` file commands:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Run the following `make` file commands:
```

> | Make command | Description                                          |

Author: I was rendered alright without the spaces

> | Make command | Description                                          |

Reviewer 3: It is not indented in the rich diff preview:

<img width="641" alt="Screenshot 2022-10-11 at 15 39 33" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76950046/195107219-4993cffc-e01e-4148-999d-452d91310b14.png">

> | Make command | Description                                          |

Author: My IDE complains about this. For me it's ok to have either ways. Giving it a try with the upcoming commit.

|--------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| build        | Run fmt, vet and DeepCopy method implementations     |
| manifests    | Create RBACs CRDs based on [API types](operator/api) |
| install      | Install CRDs                                         |
| run          | Run operator controller locally                      |

> ### Cluster setup

Author: Changed it to:

- Local Cluster setup
- Remote Cluster setup

> - Refer to the remote cluster and registry setup [documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/developer/provision-cluster-and-registry.md#remote-cluster-setup) to create cluster(s) either in a single-cluster or dual-cluster mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Set up the remote cluster environment according to [remote cluster and registry setup](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/developer/provision-cluster-and-registry.md#remote-cluster-setup).
```

- Set your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to point towards the desired cluster.
- Run the following commands with `IMG` environment variable pointing to the image name

> | Make command | Description                                           |

Reviewer 3: Formatting breaks? Oh no. Does .md only allow tables starting at the beginning of a line? What a ridiculous tool.

Indentation should push the tables flush with other text that belongs to a sstep.
<img width="641" alt="Screenshot 2022-10-11 at 15 39 33" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76950046/195107219-4993cffc-e01e-4148-999d-452d91310b14.png">

|--------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| docker-build | Build operator image                                  |
| docker-push  | Push docker image to your repo                        |
| deploy       | Deploys the operator resources to the desired cluster |

## Contribution
Refer to [Kyma contribution guidelines](https://kyma-project.io/community/contributing/02-contributing/).

> ## Versioning and Releasing

Reviewer 3: We use [sentence case](https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-style-and-terminology/#sentence-case) in headlines. 

```suggestion
## Versioning and releasing
```

> Refer to a summary on versioning [here](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#versioning-and-releasing). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Learn about about [versioning and releasing](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager#versioning-and-releasing). 
```
